>> Bianca Gandolfo: We are gonna
get started with talking about
the implementation, so
we spent about 40 minutes giving this
a go with only minimal direction.
So those of you who are at home working on
this, know that most people weren't able
to finish the one data structure
implementation in a 40-minute period, so
don't get discouraged if you're
finding that this takes a lot of time.
You're gonna laugh because
although they are hard to,
it's hard to get to
the answer from scratch.
But once you see the implementation,
it's actually fairly simple.
It's just a combination of
things that you already know.
Arranged a little bit differently
than maybe you're used to because,
often when we're programming in
JavaScript, we're not thinking about this,
kind of like, meta programming stuff, like
how our programs are actually being used.
And so, it's just a different
way of thinking about it, but
a really good exercise to improve
the way that you understand your code.
So let's get started,
we're gonna implement a stack, okay?
And what I'm gonna do here is
I'm gonna ahead and fork it and
we'll work on this together.
So I'm gonna rely on all of you to ask
me questions, to give me suggestions
as I walk through how I reason
about solving this problem, okay?
So I'm going to implement this by hand,
and so we'll do it together.
So again, when I run it,
we have the stack over here.
It's just an object that
has a property_storage,
that holds a reference to
this object here, okay.
So the first thing I do when I'm
thinking about a data structure is,
I think about okay, how do I draw
it out in kind of like code terms?
So I would kind of just
think about it like this.
This is how I think I just you know,
and then I'm like okay,
if I wanna insert it, how am I to do that?
Maybe like if I wanted to have some order,
I might like have like a key.
That's a zero, and
then I could put a value here like three.
And then okay,
if I would just keep inserting like this,
so we have a key value pair.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So this is like
an object of objects, I'm realizing that
that's the next thing that I need to make
sure that there's a containing object.
And maybe, I'll just do like this,
actually put a comma there and
then I just have one object,
and needed to and
then,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: See,
maybe I'll just keep this consistent,
okay.
So this is I'm inserting, I'm inserting,
okay now, I'm pushing, I'm pushing.
Now I need two, and the reason I'm using
numerical indices is because I know
that a stack is really like an array and I
know that an array uses numerical indices.
And so that's kinda how I made that leap.
And then, so now I need to push, so in
order for me to, I'm sorry I need to pop.
In order for me to pop,
I need to know which the last index is.
So that means, I probably need
a way to keep track of that, right?
Any ideas?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Maybe like a length
property, something like that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Seem reasonable?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We
have a length property.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: At this point,
I would want it to be 2,
but how do we get it there?
So those are some things that I'm
just thinking about as I'm thinking
about how to code out the solution.
So then peek, peek I feel like
is really similar to pop, so
it would be knowing what the last
one is because a stack, right,
we need to have a reference
to the last one.
That's gonna be important so
that's what I'm thinking about.
And then the next thing I like to do is,
like, okay, so
that's, kind of like, me drawing it in my
code and then the next thing is, okay so,
what would that look
like in terms of the API?
And the API is just like, how am I
interacting with this data structure.
So right, I'm gonna be pushing,
the first time I'm going to build
it like this, I'm gonna push zero.
And then I'm going to push one.
And I expect it to look like this, and
I expect it to have a length of two.
And then when I pop,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's put this under
here so, and then when I pop,
I will expect it then.
So I don't pass anything to pop just like
you would in if you
are popping off an array.
I would expect it then to look
like this and have a length of 1.
So those are some things that's kind
of how I'm thinking about I would
interact with it.
And then, so
all the things that we think about and
talk about with my interviewer
would be edge cases.
Okay, so what if it's empty,
how might my logic need to
accommodate like an empty list or
another thing that you should consider is
okay, what if I pass something that into?
Maybe you have a function that is
requiring other function to be passed,
what if it's undefined,
what if I pass a string instead.
So these are kind of age cases,
error handling kind of things that you
might wanna think about and talk about
with an interviewer, especially if your
interview prompt is kind of a shorter one.
They might be looking for
more details like that if you are doing
really long one like implement
a whole data structure,
it might like be okay with
you just saying like,
okay to do,
I will handle these kind of edge cases.
So do some tips from little old me, okay.
So now that I kind of have an idea,
the next I might do is pseudo code it out.
But it's pretty
straightforward in my mind.
So I'm gonna go ahead and code it.
But I recommend that once you kind
of go through this process, and
you feel like you know what your approach
is, you discuss it with your interviewer.
Your interviewer thinks
it's also a good idea.
You can ask them what their opinion is.
And then, if you still don't have
the specific step by step edge start
in your head, you may want to just
do some pseudocode which just in English
say first, I would loop through this loop.
Then I would do ten jumping jacks,
else, whatever.
Just write it out like that and to get
your head around it you can even debug
your pseudocode,
which we might do if we have time.
Not for this one though.
And kinda go through and see,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If
you're bug-free, okay.
All right, so we'll start with push.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
push adds a new value of any
type and like that thing there.
Okay, all right, so I want to add a value,
so I need a length.
So maybe I'll say this.length.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We'll
initialize it at 0,
cuz the first time we won't have anything.
So let's see, so
I could say this._storage,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: At the length,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Equals value, okay?
The second time we add it,
we're gonna want length to be one, so
we'll increment length after, okay, push.
>> Student: The basic thing at
this place in the stack, right?
This is the value that is assigned to it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, so
the very first one is gonna be zero and
you're gonna be counting up.
Then when you pop, you are going to
start from the highest on and go down.
>> Student: Which we'll know
from the length property?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Exactly, we can
derive that from the length, for sure.
Okay, so that seems reasonable.
Let's just,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: console.log,
and make sure that we're on
the right track, all right.
Great, that seems to be
what I am expecting.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I
apologize that's really small.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
I feel happy about that,
how do you guys feel about that?
Any questions about our push?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Something I used
to think about, since this an object,
we can't support a function.
We can't support an array or
anything like that.
So those are some type
checks you could use, so
I might do,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Something like that.
Okay, so let's think, if this is
empty would it work any differently?
>> Student: Meaning that if
it didn't get an argument in?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's another thing
to check, if there is no argument.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Go on, anything else?
>> Student: [INAUDIBLE] Like edge cases-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Student: If something would break this.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Exactly.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, ready for pop?
So pop, what does pop take?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: As an argument,
what does it take?
Nothing, right?
Okay.
>> Student: It's always
gonna be the last one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep,
it's always gonna be the last one.
You want to return it at the end.
So we can see for my signature,
tells what's doing and
just return the last and
newest value in the stack, okay.
So how can we do this?
We can say,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's say,
const lastVal = this._storage and
this.length- 1, right?
So that's another thing to be mindful of,
off by one errors.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then we need to delete it,
we can actually use a delete keyword,
or what I usually do as I just.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: this._length- 1.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Set it to undefined,
same thing as deleting it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then,
we wanna return our last value.
And before that, I think Tom mentioned
we need to decrement our length.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What do we think?
>> Student2: They'd have returning.
>> Student: So what is 125,
walk me through that again?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so what we're
doing is we have let's say, so we pushed,
we have zero, this is our storage object,
we have zero like this in here.
And then we also have one, right?
We have two.
So when we pop,
we are grabbing this value,
which is one, at property one.
Saving it in there,
because we're gonna delete it.
Once you delete it, so you have to
save a reference before you delete it.
And so what we're doing here is we're
just setting this value to undefined.
>> Student: Reset it almost.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
yeah, it's the same.
I think the implementation
details of the delete keyword and
sending it to undefined are pretty much
exactly the same, so I don't care.
>> Student: So we saved the reference
on line 24, so we don't care.
Now it's stored there cuz we grabbed it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
you have to delete it, somehow, right.
Another way that you can do it
is you could instead of, yeah,
I would just said undefined.
There are a few other things you could do,
but this is the easiest thing.
Or if you like the delete keyword,
you can just delete it, too.